---
date: "2019-08-27T19:19:30+10:00"
draft: false
tags:
- archives
- libraries
- glam
title: Pivot
---

[tl;dr](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/tl;dr): I have withdrawn from my
PhD and will start a Master of Information Management in February 2020.

From mid-2017 to mid-2018, I was enrolled in a PhD at the University of
Divinity, on the topic of queer Christian autobiographies as expressions
of practical theology. At the time, it felt like synchronicity. In
mid-2017 Australia was in the throes of the marriage equality postal
survey and the diversity of Christian perspectives on sexuality was
finally becoming more widely known. I still believe that what faithful
Christians (and members of other faiths) need to hear is more stories of
the lives and experiences of real queer people -- including queer people
of faith -- rather than more dogmatic arguments based on abstract
philosophy and ancient texts, as that ground has been covered well in
forty years of queer theology. I hoped to foreground contemporary use of
autobiography and memoir as spiritual practice in order to help
re-orient the way we talk about sexuality and religion.

However, queer theology is a small niche, and an even smaller niche
within a niche in Australia, where advanced, rigorous theological study
and research is a tiny market; the country's only specialist university
for Christian theology has extremely limited financial resources to
support research students; and most churches' practical and financial
support for theological study stops at ministerial formation.  (Not that
I would expect my church to support research in queer theology in
any case.) In a global contemporary environment that has been
gradually devaluing research in the humanities, it is hard to justify
PhD study just as a labour of love. With no financial support available
and no significant improvement to my employability to look forward to,
I could not justify continuing to pour time and effort and forgo income
for another three to five years.

A few weeks ago I withdrew from my PhD and applied to two universities
to study information management, which will give me the professional
recognition to work as a librarian and/or archivist, or in some other
role in this rapidly evolving field. I was pleased to be offered places
at both institutions, and have accepted the offer from RMIT, which also
gave me advanced standing for previous study. Because, like so many of
my life and career changes, this is a variation on a theme that has been
playing for most of my life. Not only was I a nerdy book-lover from the
age of six[^1], my first job that lasted more than a few months was as a
library officer in my local library network, and I started the same
qualification at RMIT twenty years ago, before personal circumstances
led me to put a long pause on this path. In the meantime, my experience
in data management, web development, and digital humanities mean that I
now have a lot more to bring to a profession that has to adapt to
changes brought about by technology.

I start (hopefully full-time) study in six months; in the meantime, I
hope to build up my savings with consulting work, and begin reading and
learning about the contemporary
[GLAM](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/GLAM) landscape. I have joined
[newCardigan](https://newcardigan.org/) and plan to start attending
cardiParties soon. I would welcome any suggested reading or any other
resources that could help me update my theoretical knowledge of
libraries and archives -- feel free to
[DM](https://twitter.com/claudinec) or
[email](mailto:info@claudinec.net) me.

[^1]: Really, I was a nerd. My first appearance in a national newspaper was a story about my collection of over a hundred books at the age of six. One of my childhood pastimes was cataloguing my personal collection and pasting checkout slips in the back of books.
